be in its own channel . it could span time boundaries of any type . it could be instantaneous things like that . and then from the recognition side , we have fact traces at the phone level . if you could handle that , it could handle states or whatever . and then at the proxy level , we have frame sort of like actual feature files , like these p files or anything like that . and that ' s sort of the world of things that i . . . and then we have the align channels . very coarse . it seems to me you want to keep the frame level stuff separate . yeah , i definitely agree . and i wanted to find actually a nicer format or a maybe a more compact format that we used before . just because you ' ve got 10 channels or whatever and two hours of a meeting . it ' s huge . now , how would you represent multiple speakers in this framework ? were you just represent them as you would have like a speaker tag or something ? there ' s a speaker tag up at the top , which identifies them . and then the way i had it is each turn or each other . and so i don ' t even remember now how to speak or id tag attached to it . in this format , you would have a different tag , which would be linked to the link . so somewhere else you would have another thing that would be . . . let ' s see , would it be a node or a link ? and so this one would have an id . is link 74 or something like that . and then somewhere up here you would have a link that was referencing l74 and had speaker . adam . actually , the channel i think that . . . well , channel is what the channel is output . this isn ' t quite right . i have to look at it again . but so how in the next format do we express a hierarchical relationship between , say , and utterance and the words within it ? so how do you tell that these are the words that belong to that utterance ? you would have another structure lower down than this that would be saying they ' re all belonging to this id . so each thing refers to the utterance that it belongs to ? right . so each utterance could refer to a term . and each term could refer to something higher up . and what if you actually have . . . so right now what you have as utterance , the closest thing that comes out of the channel is the stuff between the segment boundaries that the transcribers put in or that t - lo put in . which may or may not actually be like . . . it ' s usually not the beginning and end of a sentence . well , that ' s why i didn ' t call it sentence . right . so it ' s like a segment or something . so i mean , as soon as this is possible that if you have someone annotates the punctuation or whatever when they transcribe , you can say , you know , from the beginning of the sentence to the end of the sentence from the annotations , this is a unit . even though it never actually . . . it ' s only a unit by virtue of the annotations at the word level . sure . i mean , so you would have yet another tag . you ' d have another tag which says , this is of type sentence . okay . but it ' s just not overtly in the . . . because this is exactly the kind of . . . i think that should be possible as long as the . . . but what i don ' t understand is where in this type of file that would be expressed . right . you would have another tag somewhere . well , there are two ways of doing it . you could have some sort of link type equal sentence . and id is s whatever . and then lower down , you could have an utterance . so the type is utterance equals ut . and you could either say that . . . no , i don ' t know . i take this as a thing . can you say that this is . . . you would just have a part of this or do you say this is part of this ? i think you would refer up to the sentence . they ' re actually overlapping each other . the thing is that something may be a part of one thing for one purpose and another thing of another purpose . you have to have another type then , i guess . well , i think i ' d better look at it again . and because i . . . there ' s one more level of indirection that i ' m forgetting . so once you have a word sequence and you have two different segmentations of that same word sequence , say one segmentation is in terms of sentences . and another segmentation is in terms of , i don ' t know , prosotic phrases . and let ' s say that they don ' t nest . so a prosotic phrase may cross . two sentences or something . i don ' t know if that ' s true or not . well , it ' s definitely true with the segment . that ' s what exactly what i meant by the utterances versus the sentence . so you want to say this word is part of that sentence and this prosotic phrase . but the phrase is not part of the sentence and neither is the sentence part of the phrase . i ' m pretty sure that you can do that , but i ' m forgetting the exact level of nesting . two different pointers from the word up , one level up . so what you would end up having is a tag saying , here ' s a word and it starts here and it ends here . and then lower down you would say , here ' s a prosotic boundary and it has these words in it . and lower down you ' d have , here ' s a sentence and it has these words in it . so you would be able to go in and say , you know , give me all the words in the bound , in the prosotic phrase and give me all the words in it , yeah . so i think that ' s the word . let me look at it again . okay . so the other issue that you had was , how do you actually efficiently extract , find and extract information in a structural office type ? so you gave some examples , like . well , and i mean , you guys might , i don ' t know if this is premature because i suppose once you get the representation , you can do this , but the kinds of things i was worried about is . no , that ' s not clear . well , okay , so you can do it , but can you do it ? i mean , i can ' t do it . but , you know , you ' re going to do this , you ' re going to want to do this very quickly . or else you ' ll spend all your time sort of searching through very complex data . right . you need to sort of a paradigm for how to do it . but an example would be find all the cases in which adam started to talk while andreas was talking and his pitch was rising . andreas ' s pitch . that kind of thing . right . i mean , that ' s going to be , is the rising pitch a feature , or is it going to be in the same file ? well , the rising pitch will never be hand annotated . so all the prasodic features are going to be automatically . . . i mean , that ' s going to be hard regardless , right ? because you ' re going to have to write a program that goes through your feature file and looks for rising pitchness . so , right . so normally what we would do is we would say , what are we going to assign rising pitch to ? are we going to assign it to words ? are we going to just assign it to sort of , when it ' s rising , we have a begin and rise representation . but suppose we dump out this file , we say , for every word , we just classify it as , you know , rise or fall or neither . okay . well , in that case , you would add that to this format . so we would basically be sort of taking the format and enriching it with things that we want to query in relation to the words that are already in the file . and then querying it . okay . you want sort of a graph that works at the structural . . . you have that . and the structural . . . there ' s a standard again in xml , specifically for searching xml documents , structured xml documents , where you can specify both the content and the structural position . yeah , but it ' s not clear that that ' s . . . it ' s relative to the structure of the xml document . you use it as a tool . you use it as a tool , not an end user . it ' s not an end user thing . you would use that to build your tool to do that sort of search . because here you ' re specifying a lattice . so the underlying . . . that ' s the underlying data structure . but as long as the search can have a graph . but that ' s different from searching . it seems like as long as the feature . . . well , no , no , the whole point is that the text and the lattice are isomorphic . they represent each other completely . so that . . . that ' s true if the features from your acoustics or whatever that are not explicitly in this are at the level of these types . that if you can . . . yeah , but that ' s going to be the trouble no matter what . no matter what format you choose , you ' re going to have the . . . you ' re going to have the difficulty of relating . . . that ' s true . that ' s the frame level features . i ' m going to figure out what ' s the best format for this representation . and it ' s still going to be . . . it ' s still going to be not direct . right . or another example was , you know , where