in the language , where in the word sequence are people interrupting . so i guess that one ' s actually easier . what about the idea of using a relational database to restore the information from the xml ? so you would have xml basically would . . . you could use the xml to put the data in . and then when you get data out , you put it back in xml . so you use xml as sort of transfer . the transfer format . but then you store the data in the database , which allows you to do all kinds of good search things . one of the things that atlas is doing is they ' re trying to define an api , which is independent of the back store . so that you could define a single api and the storage could be flat xml files or a database . my opinion on that is for the sort of stuff that we ' re doing , i suspect it ' s overkill to do a full relational database that just a flat file and search tools , i bet , will be enough . but that ' s the advantage of atlas is that if we actually take . . . decide to go that route completely and we program to their api , then if we wanted to add a database later , it would be pretty easy . it seems like the kind of thing you do if people start adding all kinds of spells and whistles to the data . and so that might be good for us to use a format where we know we can easily input that to some database of other people are using it . i guess i ' m just a little hesitant to try to go whole hog on sort of the whole framework that that nist is talking about with atlas and the database and all that sort of stuff , because it ' s a big learning curve just to get going . whereas if we just do a flat file format , sure it may not be as efficient , but everyone can program in perl and use it . right , so as opposed to . . . i ' m still not convinced that you can do much at all on the text , on the flat file , the text representation , because the text representation is going to be not reflecting the structure of your words and annotations . so if it ' s not representing it , then how do you recover it ? of course it ' s representing it . that ' s the whole point . you have to basically , yeah , you can use perl to read it in and construct a internal representation that is essentially a lattice . but the . . . okay , well that was a different point , right ? so what i was saying is that . . . but that ' s what you ' ll have to do . perl , if you want to just do perl , if you wanted to use the structured xml query language , that ' s a different thing , and it ' s a set of tools that let you specify , given the d - d - t , d - t - d of the document , what sorts of structural searches you want to do . so you want to say that you ' re looking for a tag within a tag within a particular tag that has this particular text in it and refers to a particular value . and so the point isn ' t that an end user who is looking for a query like you specified wouldn ' t program it in this language . what you would do is someone would build a tool that used that as a library , so that you wouldn ' t have to construct the internal representations yourself . so i think the kinds of questions , at least in the next to the end of this year , are there may be a lot of different ones , but they ' ll all have a similar nature . they ' ll be looking at either a word level , a prosadik , a value , like a continuous value , like the slope of something . but we ' ll do something where we , some kind of data reduction , where the prosadik features are either at the word level or at the segment level , or something like that . they ' re not going to be at the phone level , and they ' re not going to be at the frame level when we get done with sort of giving them simpler shapes and things . and so the main thing is just being able , well , i guess the two goals , one that chuck mentioned is starting out with something that we don ' t have to start over , that we don ' t have to throw away if other people want to extend it for other kinds of questions , and being able to at least get enough information out on where we condition the location of features on information that ' s in the kind of file that you put up there . and that would do it . yeah , i think that there are quick and dirty solutions , and then there are long - term big infrastructure solutions . and so we want to try to pick something that lets us do a little bit of both . and especially that the representation doesn ' t have to be thrown away , even if your tools change . and so it seems to me that i have to look at it again to see whether it can really do what we want , but if we use the atlas external file representation , it seems like it ' s rich enough that you could do quick tools just as i said in pearl , and then later on , if we choose to go up the learning curve , we can use the whole atlas infrastructure . and that sounds good to me . which has all that built in . so if you would look at that and let us know what you think , i mean , i think we ' re sort of getting things because i want to get the presity work done , but i don ' t want to waste time , you know , getting the , yeah ? well , i wouldn ' t wait for the formats because anything you pick will be able to translate to another form . okay . well , maybe you should actually look at it yourself to get a sense of what is your dealing with , because adam might have one opinion , but do you , i definitely know . yeah , definitely . i think the more eyes look at this , the better . especially if there ' s , you know , if someone can help with at least the setup of the right . okay . the right representation , then , you know , i hope it won ' t , we don ' t actually need the whole full blown thing to be read . so , maybe if you guys can look at it and see what i think we ' re about to end . yeah , wrapping up , but yeah , it ' s a short meeting , but why don ' t i , is there anything else like that helps me ? well , i think the other thing we might want to look at is alternatives to p file . i mean , the reason i like p files , i ' m already familiar with it , we have expertise here . and so , if we pick something else , there ' s learning curve problem . but i mean , it is just something we developed at xe . and so , is there an api ? yeah , there ' s an api for it . and a bunch of libraries , p file utilities . and so , basically , the file system . . . well , that ' s going to be a problem no matter what . you have the two gigabyte limit on the file system size . and we definitely hit that with broadcast news . maybe you could extend the api to a support , like , splitting up , you know , a conceptually one file into smaller files on disk so that you can essentially . . . yeah . you know , most of the tools can handle that , so that we didn ' t do it at the api level . we did it at the tool level , that most many of them can . . . you can specify several p files , and they ' ll just be done sequentially . okay . so , i guess , yeah , if you and don can . . . if you can show them the p file stuff in the ccc . so , this may be like that . so , if you do manpie file or apropos p file , you ' ll see . . . i ' ve looked at it at least briefly . i think what we were doing . . . this is a piece of . . . i have no idea . i didn ' t develop it , you know . i think it was dave johnson . so , it ' s all part of the quicknet library has all the utilities for it . no p files were around , maybe , for a quicknet . oh , were they ? that ' s where we ' re around with rap . mm - hmm . right ? it ' s like the history of ap . you work with ap files . yeah . i work with ap files . i don ' t remember what the p is , though . is it really ap files ? no . but there are . . . the quicknet library has a bunch of things in it to handle p files , so it works pretty well . and that isn ' t really , i guess , as important as the main . . . i don ' t know what you call it . the main third or third letter . it probably stands for fill . fill cone . is it fill file ? yes . that ' s my guess . okay , well that ' s really useful . i mean , this is exactly the kind of thing that wanted to set up . so . . . you guys have been meaning to look at the . . . i ' ll ask stuff again anyway . yeah . just keep . . . i guess it ' s also sort of a political . . . i mean , if you feel like that ' s a community that would be good to tie into anyway , then it ' s . . . yeah , i think we ' re doing it . and as i said , what i did with this stuff , i based it on theirs . it ' s just they hadn ' t actually come up with an external format yet . so now that they have come up with a format , it seems pretty reasonable to use it . but let me look at it again . okay