yeah , we had a long discussion about how easy we want to make it for people to bleep things out . so morgan wants to make it hard . it doesn ' t . i didn ' t even check yesterday when i started it . i don ' t know if it doesn ' t like low - three . you know , i discovered something yesterday on these wireless ones . you can tell if it ' s picking up breath noise and stuff . yeah , it has a little indicator on it on the aaf . so if you breathe under , then you see aaf go off . then you know , just pick up your mouth nice . oh , that ' s good . because we have a lot of tests . in fact , if you listen to just the channels and people not talk , it ' s like . . . what did you see , hannibal , recently ? exactly . very disconquering . okay . so i was going to try to get out of here in half an hour . because i really appreciate people coming . and the main thing that i was going to ask people to help with today is to give input on what kinds of database format we should use in starting to link up things like word transcripts and annotations of word transcripts . so anything that transcribers or discurs coders would ever put in the signal with time marks for words and phone boundaries and all the stuff we get out of the forced alignments in the recognizer . so we have this . . . i think a starting point is clearly the channelized output of dave gellbert ' s program , which don brought a copy of . yeah , i ' m familiar with that . i mean , i sort of already have developed an xml format for this sort of stuff . and so the only question is it the sort of thing that you want to use or not . have you looked at that ? i mean , i had a web page up . right . so i actually mostly need to be able to link up or . . . i mean , it ' s a question both of what the representate is . i guess i am going to be standing up and drawing up the word . okay , yeah . so you should definitely . so it definitely had that as a concept . so that it has a single timeline . and then you can have lots of different sections , each of which have ids attached to it . and then you can refer from other sections to those ids if you want to . so that you start with a timeline tag . timeline . and then you have a bunch of times . i don ' t remember exactly what my notation was . oh , i remember it . right . right . yeah , t equals 1 . 32 . and then i also had optional things like accuracy . and then id equals t1 . and then i also wanted to be able to not specify specifically what the time was and just have a stamp . yeah , so these are arbitrary assigned by a program , not by users . and you have a whole bunch of those . and then somewhere further down , you might have something like an utterance tag , which has start equals t17 and equals t18 . so what that ' s saying is we know it starts at this particular time . we don ' t know when it ends . okay . right . but it ends at this t18 , which may be somewhere else . we say there ' s another utterance . we don ' t know what that time actually is , but we know that it ' s the same time as this end time . yeah , whatever you want . so you ' re specifically defining a lot of us ? yes , exactly . yeah . and then these also have ids . right . so you could have some sort of other other tag later in the file . that would be something like , no , i don ' t know . noise type equals dorslam . and then you could either say time equals a particular time mark , or you could do other sorts of references . so , or you might have a prosody . prosody , right ? d , t . it ' s an o instead of an i , but the d is good . you like the d ? it ' s a good t . you know , so you could have some sort of type here . and then you could have the utterance that it ' s referring to could be u17 or something like that . okay , so , i mean , that seems great for all of the encoding of things with time and . . . oh , yeah . i guess my question is , what do you do with , say , a forced alignment ? we ' ve got all these phone labels . and what do you do if you just conceptually , if you get transcriptions where the words are staying ? but the time boundaries are changing because you ' ve got a new recognition output . sort of , what ' s the sequence of going from the waveforms that stay the same , the transcripts that may or may not change ? and then the utterance , which are the time boundaries that may or may not change . that ' s actually very nicely handled here because you could , you could , all you ' d have to change is the time stamps in the timeline without . . . that ' s why you do that extra level of indirection , so that you can just change the timeline . except the timeline is going to be huge . yeah , suppose you have a phone level . we have a phone level . yeah , i don ' t think i would do this for phone level . i think for phone level , you want to use some sort of binary representation because it ' ll be too dense otherwise . okay , so if you were doing that and you had this sort of companion thing that gets called up for phone level , what would that look like ? i would use just an existing way of doing it . it ' s just a matter of being bigger . but if you have , you know , barring memory limitations , i mean , this is still . . . it ' s parsing limitations . i don ' t want to have this text file that you have to read in the whole thing to do something very simple for . oh no , you would use it only for purposes where you actually want the phone level information . so you could have some file that configures how much information you want in your xml or something . i mean , i imagine you ' d have multiple versions of this depending on the information that you want . what i ' m wondering is whether , i think , for word level , this would be okay . yeah . for word level , it ' s all right . for lower than word level , you ' re talking about so much data that i just . . . i don ' t know . i don ' t know if that . . . i mean , we actually have so one thing that don is doing . . . gladeth is a big key . we ' re running for every frame you get a pitch value , not only one pitch value , but different kinds of pitch values . yeah , i mean , for something like that , i would use p - file or any frame level stuff i would use p - file . meaning . . . well , or something like it . it ' s . . . xe has a format for frame level representation of features . okay . that you could call . . . that you would tie into this representation with like an id . right . or there ' s a particular way in xml to refer to external resources . okay . so you would say refer to this external file . so that external file wouldn ' t be in . . . but what ' s the advantage of doing that versus just putting it into this format ? more compact , which i think is better . i mean , if you did it at this . . . you don ' t want to do it with that . anything at frame level , you had better encode binary or it ' s going to be really painful . or you just . . . i mean , i like text formats . you can always . . . jesus , then . and . . . you know , decompress them on the fly if space is really . . . i was thinking the advantage is that we can share that one . . . well , by the way , we can share that one . . . you ' re talking about gigabyte size files . you ' re going to actually run out of space in your file system for one file . right . because you have two gigabyte limit on most oss . i would say , okay , so frame level is probably not an idea . but for phone level stuff , it ' s perfectly . . . like , phones are syllables . . . well , they ' re every five frames though , so . . . something like that . but most of the frames are actually not speech . so , you know , people don ' t . . . yeah , but we actually . . . words times the average number of phones in an english word is , i don ' t know , five , maybe . so look at it . number of words times five . so you mean , pause phones take up a lot of the long pause phones ? yeah , exactly . okay , that ' s true , but you do have to keep them in there . so i think it ' s debatable whether you want to do phone level in the same thing . but i think anything at frame level , even p file is true for both . so i would use something tighter than p files . are you familiar with it ? i haven ' t seen this particular format . i ' ve used them . i don ' t know what their structure is . but i mean , p file for each frame is storing a vector of capstroller , plp values , right ? it ' s whatever you want , right ? actually , so that what ' s nice about the p file , it built into it is the concept of frames , utterances , sentences , that sort of thing , that structure .