, great . as i said . there ' s one more level of interaction , and i ' m just blanking on exactly how it works . i got to look at it again . i mean , we can start with , i guess , this input from dave ' s , which you had printed out the channelized input , because he has all of the channels , you know , with the channels , with the tag and stuff like that . so that would be directly . . . yep . easy , easy to wrap . and so then it would just be a matter of making sure to handle the annotations that are , you know , not at the word level . and . . . where are those annotations coming from ? well , right , jane would . would . . . are you talking about the overlap on annotations ? yeah , any kind of annotation that , like , isn ' t already there . anything in vision . so what i was imagining was , so dave says , we can have unlimited numbers of green ribbons . and so put a green ribbon on for an overlap code . and since we . . . i think it ' s important to remain flexible regarding the time bins for now . and so it ' s nice to have . . . however , you know , you want to have it time - time located in the discourse . so if we tie the overlap code to the first word in the overlap , then you ' ll have a time marking . it will be independent of the time bins , however , these evolve , shrinker , whatever , increase , or also you could have different time bins for different purposes . and having it tied to the first word in an overlap segment is unique . you know , anchored , clear . and it would just end up on a separate ribbon . so the overlap code is going to be easy with respect to that . you look puzzled . i just . . . i don ' t quite understand what these things are . what ? the codes themselves ? overlapped codes , i ' m not sure what that is . well , i mean , it ' s that . . . it probably doesn ' t matter . it ' s not for the topic of this meeting . no , but the idea is just to have a separate green ribbon . and let ' s say this is time bin , there ' s a word here . it ' s the first word of an overlap segment of any length , overlapping with any other word , is segment of any length . and then you can indicate that this here was perhaps a back channel , or you can say that it was usurping of the journey , or you could , you know , any number of categories . but the fact is you have a time tag in a way that ' s independent of the particular time bin , that the word ends up in , if it ' s a large unit or a small unit , or you change the boundaries of the units . right ? that ' s still unique . and bits with the format , flexible on all that . it would be nice . this is sort of regarding . . . it ' s related , but not correctly , to the main topic of discussion . but when it comes to annotations , you often find yourself in the situation where you have different annotations of the same word sequence . okay ? and sometimes the word sequence is even differ slightly because they were edited at one place , but not the other . so once this data gets out there , some people might start annotating this for , i don ' t know , dialog acts or , you know , topics or what the heck , you know , there ' s zillion things that people might annotate this for . and the only thing that is really sort of common among all the various versions of this data is the word sequence , or the proximity . for the time . or the times , but see , if you annotate dialog acts , you don ' t necessarily want to , or topics , you don ' t really want to be dealing with time marks . it ' s much more efficient for them to just see the word sequence , right ? i mean , most people aren ' t as sophisticated as we are here with , you know , time alignments and stuff . so the point is . . . did you mention some names on the . . . so my point is that you ' re going to end up with word sequences that are differently annotated . and you want some tool that is able to sort of merge these different annotations back into a single version . okay . and we had this problem very massively at sri when we worked a while back on dialog acts as well as , you know , what was it ? well , all those things were . . . aton ' s times , automatic punctuation and stuff like that . because we had one set of annotations that were based on one version of the transcripts with a particular segmentation . and then we had another version that was based on a different slightly edited version of the transcripts with a different segmentation . so we had these two different versions which were , you know , you could tell they were from the same source , but they weren ' t identical . so it was extremely hard to reliably merge these two back together to correlate the information from the different annotations . yeah . i don ' t see any way that file formats are going to help us with that . it ' s all a question of semantic . but once you have a file format , i can imagine writing , not personally , but someone writing a tool that is essentially an alignment tool that mediates between various versions . and sort of like , you know , you have this thing in unix where you have . . . wdf , right ? . . . is the diff that actually tries to reconcile different . . . . . . two diffs based on the same original . something like that . but operating on these lattices that are really what ' s behind this . . . . . . there ' s actually a diff library you can use to do things like that . so somewhere in the a4 , you would like to have like a merge or some function that merges two . . . yeah , i think it ' s going to be very hard . any sort of structured , anything when you try to merge is really , really hard because the hard part isn ' t the file format . the hard part is specifying what you mean by merge . but the one that would work here actually is that is more reliable than the utterances is the speaker on and off . so if you have a good . . . but this is exactly what i mean . you just want to tie it to . yeah , exactly . the problem is saying , what are the semantics ? what do you mean by merge ? so just to let you know where we clued it by doing both were based on words . so we had two versions of the same words , sprinkles with different tags . and then you did diff . and we did diff . that ' s just what i thought . that ' s just how i would have done it . yeah , but you know , it had lots of errors and things would end up in the wrong order and so forth . so , yeah . if you had a more . . . it was a clued because it was basically reducing everything to . . . textual . to a textual alignment . but isn ' t that something where . . . whoever , if the people who are making changes say in the transcripts , because this all happened when the transcripts were different . if they tie it to something , like if they tied it to the acoustic segment . if they . . . you know what i mean ? that if they tied it to an acoustic segment and we had the time march , that would help . but the problem is that exactly as adam said that you get . . . you know , you don ' t have that information or it ' s lost in the merge somehow . so , what kind of question ? it seems to me that we will have an official version of the corpus , which will be only one version in terms of the words . we still have an emerging issue , maybe , of coding for done independently . and you ' re going to get that because if the data gets out , people will do all kinds of things to it . and , you know , several years from now , you might want to look into the prosody of referring expressions . and someone at the university of who knows where has annotated the referring expressions . so , you want to get that annotation and bring it back in line with your data . but unfortunately , they ' ve also handed it to us . but they ' ve also handed it to us . and so , that ' s exactly what we should somehow when you distribute the data , say that , you know , that have some way of knowing how to merge it back in and asking people to write it . what ' s wrong with doing times ? yeah , time is the . . . well . . . time is passage . time times are . . . what if they haven ' t notated ? he ' s a language - miling person . so imagine , i think his example is a good one . imagine that this person who developed the corpus of the referring expressions didn ' t include time . he included references to words . he said that at this word is when it happened . but still they figure out the time . exactly . sure , but what if they change the words ? well , but you know , some angry point , you couldn ' t change it all . but can they change the word to that changing the time of the word ? the point is that they may have annotated it off a word transcript . that isn ' t the same as our word transcript . so how do you merge it back ? and i understand what you ' re saying . and i guess the answer is . . . it ' s